[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> Our beliefs drive
everything, right?
So our beliefs are really
what drive our actions
and our behavior, and
our actions and behavior
drive our destiny.
So they are paramount.
They are really those hidden
tracks underneath our lives
that help us produce the results
that we have or we don't have.
So when it comes to
understanding whether or not
we have limiting
beliefs, one clue
is to see if there's a
recurring pattern in your life.
If there's something that
you say that you want,
but it's not a reality for
you, and it's been true
for years and years and years--
or even months and months
and months, and you've
been working on it--
that's probably
a clue that there
could be a limiting
belief under there
that you need to
investigate and then
consciously work on changing.
So I think when it comes
to limiting beliefs,
if there's any area in your
life that consistently creates
a lot of pain, a lot of stress,
a lot of struggle or anxiety,
a good place to peek
around is say, well,
what do I believe about this?
Do I believe that it's
possible to resolve?
Do I believe I'm worthy
of having this resolved?
I think investigating
it on that level,
from a place of
curiosity, is step one.
Because if you're not
aware of the belief,
it's hard to change it.
For most of my life, I had
a lot of limiting beliefs
around money, and that
comes from my family.
My mom grew up in poverty, and
her entire experience of life--
money doesn't grow on trees--
and I just remember from
the time I was very small,
all the way up and through
when I was an adult,
there was never enough
when it came to money.
And so I knew that that
was what I was steeped in,
but there was another
part of me from starting
to learn and understand
how the world works,
that that wasn't always true.
And I felt in my
bones that there
was more than
enough to go around,
but my checkbook
didn't reflect that.
And so when I was starting
my business, I remember,
it was in the early days.
And you know, going to write
those checks to pay rent
every month I would get nervous
because sometimes there wasn't
enough there, but I was
so committed to growing
this business and breaking
out of this limiting belief.
And I've realized one thing--
that if I kept
behaving in the way
that I always
behaved in the past,
nothing was going to change.
So I thought to myself, what
if I start changing my behavior
rather than working
on the belief?
So here's what I did.
There was a coaching
program coming up
where it was a group
coaching program,
and I was about to open up the
doors to have people come in.
And again, this was
at a point in my life
where money was
still very scarce
and everything was
still touch and go.
And I made a promise to myself.
I said, you know, I've
always wanted my business
to be about more than just
me, more than just profits
for my own bank account, and
I don't really care that much
about material things.
I wanted it to make a
difference beyond me,
but how do I figure
out this money thing?
And I said, you know what?
No matter how many people come
into this coaching program,
I am going to make a commitment
to myself and to the universe
that I'm going to give
away 10% of the profits,
no matter what it was.
The logical part of
my mind was screaming.
There's no way.
You can't even
pay your own rent.
This is nuts.
This is not even a
wise business move.
How can you even
claim that you're
a business person
or a life coach
if you're doing
something so silly?
Yet my heart knew it was
the right move to do.
So I made that commitment,
opened the doors,
people came through,
and I said, I'm just
going to trust whatever
is left at the end.
We're going to do this.
So everyone came
through the program,
and it turns out that
amount turned out
to be about $7,000, which
was way more than I even
had in my bank account
starting this whole crazy idea,
and the idea of giving that
away got me so excited,
and I didn't know who I
was going to give it to.
So I was looking around
for an organization
that I felt like would be
a good fit with my values,
and I've always been an advocate
for empowering girls and women.
Turns out there was a UN
initiative that was starting up
called Girl Up, and it was
all about taking a look
at how many girls around the
world are denied an education
and doing what we can to
get them back in school.
I had gotten touch with the
director of that program.
And she said, hey, we're having
a launch party in New York
City.
Do you want to come?
And I was like, I would love to.
And I said, by the way, I'd
like to make a donation.
And she's like,
this is incredible.
I always had a
dream of having one
of those big
cheesy, large checks
and being able to give
it to someone else.
And I said, would you mind if
I presented you with a check--
like, a big one?
She's like, that
would be amazing.
So I went to FedEx.
I got this big cheesy
check drawn up.
I remember going on
stage, and I just
started bawling because
I couldn't believe
that it was mere eight
weeks ago that I didn't know
if I was going to be
able to pay my own rent,
and here I was being able
to present a check that
was $7,000 plus to a
group of young girls
who needed it way more
than I ever would.
I got on stage,
presented the check.
I walked off stage, and
someone came up to me,
and they said, Marie,
that was incredible.
I want to hear more about your
work and what you're doing.
And I was like, thank you.
That's great.
And she said I work
for Richard Branson,
and we're about to do a
trip with entrepreneurs
to South Africa with
him, and we would
love to invite you to come.
I kid you not.
I started jumping up
and down in my heels
right then and there because he
was always one of my business
idols, and he was someone
who I had always looked
to that embodied such
creativity and such an ability
to bring joy and purpose
to all of his businesses.
And the idea that by following
my heart and what I knew to be
true, which was that there was
more than enough to go around--
not just for me,
but for others--
that it triggered
this domino effect
of me shifting my own
limiting belief around money.
That was actually the beginning
of my business starting
to take off.
And then it enabled me
to interact with and meet
so many other people
on this journey that
could inspire me
to continue to grow
in terms of my generosity
and the difference
that I wanted to make.
In terms of how to
change a limiting belief,
it's less about the psychology,
from my point of view,
and it's more about
really flipping
old wisdom on its head.
So most of us have heard the
kind of process of creation.
So we have thought,
then we have word,
then we have deed or action,
and that's how things usually
come to life.
But when you want to
change a limiting belief,
you have to flip that
formula and make it reverse.
You act first.
Then you speak in alignment
with how you want to behave,
and then your beliefs changed.
So it's this really
cool, interesting,
very action-oriented way to
kind of sidestep all of the,
"oh, my gosh, I have so
many limiting beliefs,"
and get right to changing them.
You do that enough, and you will
absolutely change the belief.
So one of my mantras that I've
lived by ever since I realized
that limiting
beliefs around money
were really holding
me back was there's
always more where
that came from.
So every single time,
still, when I write a check
or I pay a bill or
I make a donation
or whatever I have to do
that is in terms of outflow,
I always say, there is always
more where that came from.
And you do that enough,
and it absolutely
becomes your reality.
I am one of the most pragmatic,
practical people you will ever
meet, and so this isn't
about just saying it,
and it will become true.
And there may be people
that believe that--
and I honor and respect
it-- but for me, I'm
a very brass tacks kind of girl.
[LAUGHS] So it is about aligning
your actions in a way that's
appropriate with your
life at this moment,
and then changing your
reality from that place.
I think one of the
other most powerful ways
that we can change limiting
beliefs is through finding
evidence to the contrary, so
actively looking for what else
might be true.
In the example of
limiting money beliefs,
well, if you're
struggling with money
but other people aren't,
recognizing, OK, well,
maybe they've figured out
something that I haven't yet.
So let me go collect all
the evidence of other people
that disprove this
limiting belief.
It could be the same
thing around health--
actively, proactively
searching out
and creating a whole stack
of evidence to the contrary
is, I think, how
we can also start
to begin to change some
of those negative beliefs.
[MUSIC PLAYING]